MagTool description

The purpose of MagTool is to compute magnitudes from amplitudes and
origins. It does not use any waveforms, only amplitudes computed
elsewhere. This decouples magnitude computation from amplitude
measurement and allows several modules to generate amplitudes
concurrently.

In order to get the necessary data for computing magnitudes, MagTool
connects to an scmaster and listens for incoming origins and
amplitudes. As soon as an origin comes in, it gets the amplitudes
connected to the picks either from memory buffer of the database and
computes magnitudes based on the amplitudes relevant for the
respective magnitudes.

If an amplitude is updated, the corresponding magnitude is updated
as well. This allows the computation of preliminary, real-time
magnitudes even before the full length of the P coda is available.
NOTE: As of end of March 2007, all SeisComP modules that send
amplitudes so so only once for each pick, the update feature
therefore is not relevant (yet).

Usage:

    scmagtool -s <host> -u <user> [options]

Mandatory arguments:

    -s <host>   host on which scmaster and DB server run
    -s user     name to use to connect to scmaster

Options:

    -v          increase verbosity level by one (may be repeated)
    -D          run as daemon
    -l <file>   log file name
    -x <span>   object expiry time span (hours)
    -y          use syslog


Relationship between amplitudes and origins

In the current implementation, MagTool makes use of the fact that
origins sent by Autoloc and OriginLocatorView include the complete
set of arrivals, which reference picks used for origin computation.
The picks in turn are referenced by a number of amplitudes, some of
which are relevant for magnitude computation.

Known problems/limitations:

Amplitudes are retrieved from the DB only if connected to a pick
that is part of an origin. This means that if an origin contains
manual picks without amplitudes, and the original automatic pick was
not received through messaging (usually shortly after startup), we
will miss these amplitudes.

Currently a number of different amplitudes (mb, mB and ML) are
computed for automatic picks directly by the automatic picker. If
automatic picks are changed manually, i.e. replaced by manual picks,
there is no tool (at the moment) to go back from such manual picks
and get corresponding amplitudes. While this restriction will soon
be overcome, it is there now. The strategy to get amplitudes for
manual picks is to look for close automatic picks and adopt its
amplitude. Given that usually manual picks differ only slightly
(max. a few seconds) from the manual picks, and that the time
interval to measure amplitudes is much longer, this seems a
justified workaround. If a station is added to the manual analysis,
for which there is no near-by automatic pick with assiciated
amplitudes, no magnitude computation is performed for that station.
Again, this limitation will go away as soon as there is a tool to
measure amplitudes based on manual picks.

Currently no check is performed if an origin has changed
significantly. It may thus happen that a new pick arrives without
relevant amplitude (e.g. PKP) and a new magnitude measurement is
sent out even though the origin has changed only minimally,
resulting in unnecessary message traffic. Optimization is possible
here.

A magnitude recomputation is currently performed only if an origin
is received, which refers to a pick with that associated amplitude.
This is always the case in the current Seiscomp implementation, but
may change in future.
